README.md, before:

#  PipeLight - Vision-Pipeline Framework
The Joker's #4320 Vision Processing Framework for the First Robotics Competition (FRC).   
The code is written entirely in Python 3, but also uses a JSON files to get user specific data for the framework.

## Table of Contents
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Code Highlights](#code-highlights)
* [Project Philosophy](#project-philosophy)
    * [Pipeline](#pipeline)
    * [Conventions](#conventions)
    * [Modification Stage](#modification-stage)
    * [Extraction Stage](#extraction-stage)
    * [Filter Stage](#filter-stage)
    * [Calculation Stage](#calculation-stage)
    * [Publishing Stage](#publishing-stage)
* [Features](#features)
    * [Pipeline Creation](#pipeline-creation)
    * [Grip File Support](#grip-file-support)
    * [Camera Calibration](#camera-calibration)
* [Credits](#credits)
* [Contact Info](#contact-info)

## Installation

### Requirements
* Python 3.6 or higher
* OpenCV (preference for version 3.4.x)
* Flask
* Numpy
* Pynetwotktables

Install all of the above libraries to run the code and then you can run main.py.  
If you don't know how to install any of the libraries check our installation guide.

## Code Highlights
* Built in calibration of any camera, This includes any type of a camera parameter (as long as the camera supports it).
* Very versatile framework, It is easy to add new pipelines, Quirks and methods and functions.
* Takes about X milliseconds to build a pipeline.
* The code is open source and we highly encourage using it!
* The code was entirely written by high school students which are listed in the credits part.

## Project Philosophy
The project is based on a pipeline object.
Once you have a pipeline object you can call the main pipeline method - process_image and it will process the given image by your configurations.

### Pipeline
Pipeline is a class that represents a set of operational stages which are preformed one after the other on an image, 
which we get from the camera. All this is done once process_image is called in the main method. 

These stages include but not limited to the followings:
* Modification stage - which uses different modifiers to modify the image.
* Extraction stage - which uses different extractors to extract contours from the image.
* Filter stage - which uses different filters to filter the extracted contours.
* Calculation stage - which uses different calculations to calculate data from the filtered contours.
* Publishing stage - which uses different publishers to publish data into to the a desired machine. 

See [pipeline class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/pipeline/pipeline.py) to better understand the algorithm that builds the pipeline.

### Conventions  
Every stage from the list above is represented by a directory.  
This directory is generally referred to as Quirks directory.  
Quirk is every file that contains a class that is used in the pipeline for any purpose.  
Each Directory contains a Main Quirk which is an abstract class, Every other class in the directory needs to implement it.  

And now here is an example:  
For the Modification Stage there is a directory called modifiers.  
This directory contains the Main Quirk which is called Modifier.  
Each and every Quirk in this directory implements it.   
For example the Blur Class implements Modifier.   

For the file conventions see the [PEP8](https://github.com/PyCQA/pep8-naming.git) convention guide.

### Modification Stage:
The first stage of the pipeline, during this stage we get a frame from the camera and apply different modifier quirks on it to get a good image for the extraction stage.

Main Quirk: modifier, see [modifier quirk](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/modifier.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:  
* Blur - See [blur modifier](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/blur.py) for more info.
* Morph - See [morph modifier](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/morph.py) for more info.
* Color Threshold - See [color threshold modifier](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/color_threshold.py) for more info.

### Extraction Stage:
The second stage of the pipeline, during this stage we get the modified frame from the previous stage and extract all the contours from it by their type.

Main Quirk: extractor, see [extractor class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/extractors/extractor.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:
* Circles - See [circles_extractor class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/extractors/circles_extractor.py) for more info.
* Simple - See [simple extractor class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/extractors/simple_extractor.py) for more info.

### Filter Stage:
The third stage of the pipeline, during this stage we get contours from the previous stage and filter them by different parameters, like size,shape, aspect ratio and so on.

Main Quirk: filter, see [filter class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/filters/filter.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:
* Area Range - See [area range filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/filters/area_range_filter.py) for more info.
* Area Ratio - See [area ratio filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/filters/area_ratio_filter.py) for more info.
* Aspect Ratio - See [aspect ratio filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/aspect_ratio_filter.py) for more info.
* Biggest Area - See [biggest area filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/biggest_area_filter.py) for more info.
* Diagonal Pair - See [diagonal pair filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/diagonal_reflective_tape_pair_filter.py) for more info.
* Shape - See [shape filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/shape_filter.py) for more info.

### Calculation Stage:
The fourth stage of the pipeline, during this stage we use the different filtered contours from the previous stage for many different calculations, these include distance and angle calculations for every filtered contour.

Main Quirk: calculation, see [calculation class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/calculations/modifier.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:
* Angle - See [angle calculation](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/calculations/angle_calculation.py) for more info.
* more will be added soon!

### Publishing Stage:
The last stage of the pipeline, during this stage we send (publish) the calculations from the previous stage to the desired Robot, Computer or any other working machine that can run python.

Main Quirk: publisher, see [publisher class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/publishers/publish.py) for more info.  
 
Class Quirks:
* Logging Publisher - See [logging class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/publishers/logging_publisher.py) for more info.
* Network Table Publisher - See [morph class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/publishers/network_table_publisher.py) for more info.

## Features

### Pipeline Creation
The framework uses a json file as a way of creating a pipeline.  
For an example file you see can check the [examples directory](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/examples).                  

We highly recommend you will be familiar with JSON before trying to create a pipeline.

### Grip File Support
WIP

### Camera Calibration
The Camera calibration is done by writing all the camera parameters that you want to calibrate in a JSON file format (where you write your pipeline creation input). Then all the parameters are given to camera.py, and that calibrates them.  

To learn more about this process check [camera class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/camera.py).

## Credits
Original Vision Processing team which includes (2018-2019):
* Zohar Shaked
* Shay Linzberg 
* Bar-Hen Krochmel  
  
Code Contributors:  
* Nadav Moran  
  
Special thanks to:       
Daniel Vaserstein - For helping us organize our code better, helping set the project conventions and mentoring us till the very end.

## Contact Info
For any problem encountered with the Framework, feel free to contact us at our mail: frcthejoker4320@gmail.com  
or just write us a issue in this branch.

Commit message:

add grip file support data

README.md, after:

#  PipeLight - Vision-Pipeline Framework
The Joker's #4320 Vision Processing Framework for the First Robotics Competition (FRC).   
The code is written entirely in Python 3, but also uses a JSON files to get user specific data for the framework.

## Table of Contents
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Code Highlights](#code-highlights)
* [Project Philosophy](#project-philosophy)
    * [Pipeline](#pipeline)
    * [Conventions](#conventions)
    * [Modification Stage](#modification-stage)
    * [Extraction Stage](#extraction-stage)
    * [Filter Stage](#filter-stage)
    * [Calculation Stage](#calculation-stage)
    * [Publishing Stage](#publishing-stage)
* [Features](#features)
    * [Pipeline Creation](#pipeline-creation)
    * [Grip File Support](#grip-file-support)
    * [Camera Calibration](#camera-calibration)
* [Credits](#credits)
* [Contact Info](#contact-info)

## Installation

### Requirements
* Python 3.6 or higher
* OpenCV (preference for version 3.4.x)
* Flask
* Numpy
* Pynetwotktables

Install all of the above libraries to run the code and then you can run main.py.  
If you don't know how to install any of the libraries check our installation guide.

## Code Highlights
* Built in calibration of any camera, This includes any type of a camera parameter (as long as the camera supports it).
* Very versatile framework, It is easy to add new pipelines, Quirks and methods and functions.
* Takes about X milliseconds to build a pipeline.
* The code is open source and we highly encourage using it!
* The code was entirely written by high school students which are listed in the credits part.

## Project Philosophy
The project is based on a pipeline object.
Once you have a pipeline object you can call the main pipeline method - process_image and it will process the given image by your configurations.

### Pipeline
Pipeline is a class that represents a set of operational stages which are preformed one after the other on an image, 
which we get from the camera. All this is done once process_image is called in the main method. 

These stages include but not limited to the followings:
* Modification stage - which uses different modifiers to modify the image.
* Extraction stage - which uses different extractors to extract contours from the image.
* Filter stage - which uses different filters to filter the extracted contours.
* Calculation stage - which uses different calculations to calculate data from the filtered contours.
* Publishing stage - which uses different publishers to publish data into to the a desired machine. 

See [pipeline class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/pipeline/pipeline.py) to better understand the algorithm that builds the pipeline.

### Conventions  
Every stage from the list above is represented by a directory.  
This directory is generally referred to as Quirks directory.  
Quirk is every file that contains a class that is used in the pipeline for any purpose.  
Each Directory contains a Main Quirk which is an abstract class, Every other class in the directory needs to implement it.  

And now here is an example:  
For the Modification Stage there is a directory called modifiers.  
This directory contains the Main Quirk which is called Modifier.  
Each and every Quirk in this directory implements it.   
For example the Blur Class implements Modifier.   

For the file conventions see the [PEP8](https://github.com/PyCQA/pep8-naming.git) convention guide.

### Modification Stage:
The first stage of the pipeline, during this stage we get a frame from the camera and apply different modifier quirks on it to get a good image for the extraction stage.

Main Quirk: modifier, see [modifier quirk](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/modifier.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:  
* Blur - See [blur modifier](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/blur.py) for more info.
* Morph - See [morph modifier](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/morph.py) for more info.
* Color Threshold - See [color threshold modifier](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/modifiers/color_threshold.py) for more info.

### Extraction Stage:
The second stage of the pipeline, during this stage we get the modified frame from the previous stage and extract all the contours from it by their type.

Main Quirk: extractor, see [extractor class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/extractors/extractor.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:
* Circles - See [circles_extractor class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/extractors/circles_extractor.py) for more info.
* Simple - See [simple extractor class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/extractors/simple_extractor.py) for more info.

### Filter Stage:
The third stage of the pipeline, during this stage we get contours from the previous stage and filter them by different parameters, like size,shape, aspect ratio and so on.

Main Quirk: filter, see [filter class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/filters/filter.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:
* Area Range - See [area range filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/filters/area_range_filter.py) for more info.
* Area Ratio - See [area ratio filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/filters/area_ratio_filter.py) for more info.
* Aspect Ratio - See [aspect ratio filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/aspect_ratio_filter.py) for more info.
* Biggest Area - See [biggest area filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/biggest_area_filter.py) for more info.
* Diagonal Pair - See [diagonal pair filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/diagonal_reflective_tape_pair_filter.py) for more info.
* Shape - See [shape filter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/filters/filters/shape_filter.py) for more info.

### Calculation Stage:
The fourth stage of the pipeline, during this stage we use the different filtered contours from the previous stage for many different calculations, these include distance and angle calculations for every filtered contour.

Main Quirk: calculation, see [calculation class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/calculations/modifier.py) for more info.  

Class Quirks:
* Angle - See [angle calculation](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/calculations/angle_calculation.py) for more info.
* more will be added soon!

### Publishing Stage:
The last stage of the pipeline, during this stage we send (publish) the calculations from the previous stage to the desired Robot, Computer or any other working machine that can run python.

Main Quirk: publisher, see [publisher class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/publishers/publish.py) for more info.  
 
Class Quirks:
* Logging Publisher - See [logging class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/publishers/logging_publisher.py) for more info.
* Network Table Publisher - See [morph class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/publishers/network_table_publisher.py) for more info.

## Features

### Pipeline Creation
The framework uses a json file as a way of creating a pipeline.  
For an example file you see can check the [examples directory](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/examples).                  

We highly recommend you will be familiar with JSON before trying to create a pipeline.

### Grip File Support
We as a framework offer the users to convert a GRIP file to JSON file.  
The converter is also versatile and need to be update according to the GRIP program and the framework development.  
to convert a GRIP file to JSON file all you need is to:
1. create a grip file
2. create a basic JSON file - a JSON file that contain the basic format for the framework (you can find one in the examples directory as [example.py](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/examples/example.py).       )
3. run on the command line the followed command:  
`python convert_grip_to_json.py grip_file_name.grip json_file_name.json`

If you want to add more support to the converter or just check comment about the function you can see the [converter](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/convert_grip_to_json.py) and edit it in the designated place.

### Camera Calibration
The Camera calibration is done by writing all the camera parameters that you want to calibrate in a JSON file format (where you write your pipeline creation input). Then all the parameters are given to camera.py, and that calibrates them.  

To learn more about this process check [camera class](https://github.com/TheJoker4320/vision-framework/blob/develop/camera.py).

## Credits
Original Vision Processing team which includes (2018-2019):
* Zohar Shaked
* Shay Linzberg 
* Bar-Hen Krochmel  
  
Code Contributors:  
* Nadav Moran  
  
Special thanks to:       
Daniel Vaserstein - For helping us organize our code better, helping set the project conventions and mentoring us till the very end.

## Contact Info
For any problem encountered with the Framework, feel free to contact us at our mail: frcthejoker4320@gmail.com  
or just write us a issue in this branch.
